---
title: "Different Ways To Get/Use RIDDL"
description: "RIDDL documentation focused on implementors' usage"
date: 2022-08-06T10:50:32-07:00
draft: false
weight: 30
---

There are several ways to get riddl software on to your computer, depending 
on how you want to work. 

{{< toc >}}

## Download
This is the simplest way to get `riddlc`. It should run on Windows, Mac 
and Linux. Follow these steps:
* Go to [the riddlc downloads page](https://github.com/ossuminc/riddl/releases/)
* Click on the release title you want to install
* Scroll down to the "Assets" section
* Download the riddlc-{version}.zip file
* Unzip that file on your computer
* Place the riddlc-{version}/bin directory in your path

## Staged
To use `riddlc` locally and be able to update it with new changes without a 
large download, use this approach:
* `git clone https://github.com/ossuminc/riddl.git`
* `cd riddl`
* Put the `./riddlc/target/universal/stage/bin` directory in your PATH
  variable using a full path instead of "."
* Run `sbt stage` to build the program
* To update, run `git pull` from the `riddl` cloned repository directory and
  rerun `sbt stage` to rebuild.

This allows you to both make local changes and pull in changes from others to
keep your local copy of `riddlc` up to date.

## Integrate With SBT

TBD.

## RiddlSbtPlugin
To use the sdt-plugin you must first have installed riddlc by one of the above 
methods. This approach allows you to run `riddlc` commands from a sbt based
project. The command you configure will run first when you use the `compile`
command in sbt. Follow these steps:

* In your `plugins.sbt` file, add:
  `addSbtPlugin("com.ossuminc" % "sbt-riddl" % "{version}"). You can find 
  the [latest available version here](https://github.com/ossuminc/riddl/releases)
* In your `build.sbt` file, use `enablePlugins(SbtRiddlPlugin)` on your project
* Set the following sbt settings:
    * `riddlcPath := file("...")` This defaults to "riddlc" which is 
      appropriate if the right version is in your path; otherwise specify the
      full path to the `riddlc` command
    * `riddlcOptions := Seq("from", "path/to/config/file", "hugo")` This is 
      just an example, you can put any command or options you want in that 
      sequence. Use `riddlc help` to find out what commands you can use. 
* To run a translator in this way, put a `riddlc.conf` file next to the top 
  level `.riddl` file you want to translate. The content of that file can 
  specify common options and the commands you want to support from 
  `sbt-riddl`, like the example below, taken from the
  [`riddl-examples` project](https://github.com/reactifi/riddl-examples). 
  These files use 
  [Human-Oriented-CONfiguration](https://github.com/lightbend/config)

```hocon 
common {
    show-times = true
    verbose = true
    quiet = false
    dry-run = false
    show-warnings = true
    show-missing-warnings = false
    show-style-warnings = false
}
hugo {
    input-file = "ReactiveBBQ.riddl"
    output-dir = "target/hugo/ReactiveBBQ"
    project-name = "Reactive BBQ"
    site-title = "Reactive BBQ Generated Specification"
    site-description = "This site provides a specification for the Reactive BBQ application as generated by riddlc"
    site-logo-path = "images/RBBQ.png"
    erase-output = true
    base-url = "https://bbq.riddl.tech"
    source-url = "https://github.com/ossuminc/riddl"
    edit-path = "/-/blob/main/src/riddl/ReactiveBBQ"
}
validate {
    input-file = "ReactiveBBQ.riddl"
```


